[StackExchange][1] is a group of Q&A sites created by [StackOverflow (SO)][2].

But exactly which part of the new StackExchange Q&A sites are new users and which part of are shared from StackOverflow?
  
I mined the November 2010 data dump [again][3] and came up with some interesting stats. 

To figure out the common percentage between StackOverflow and other sites, I created lists of in memory users for each site, and then figured out which users had the same email hash.  A user across sites with the same email hash can be considered the same user.

I knew before doing this analysis that the percentage of common users to StackExchange users would be high because of the relative size of the StackOverflow community.  I do fully expect for this 73% to decrease for future data dumps though and it will be interesting to re-run these stats and compare when the next data dump comes out. 

**Here are the statistics per site:**

- **Cooking:** 2630 of 3155 in common (83.36%)
- **Game Development:** 2497 of 2938 in common (84.99%)
- **Gaming:** 3813 of 4418 in common (86.31%)
- **Mathematics:** 2162 of 2965 in common (72.92%)
- **Photography:** 1659 of 1916 in common (86.59%)
- **Server Fault:** 28770 of 38434 in common (74.86%)
- **StackApps:** 3656 of 3874 in common (94.37%)
- **Statistical Analysis:** 1298 of 1728 in common (75.12%)
- **Super User:** 31897 of 49157 in common (64.89%)
- **Ubuntu:** 3245 of 5090 in common (63.75%)
- **WebApplications:** 5575 of 6223 in common (89.59%)
- **WebMasters:** 2612 of 2820 in common (92.62%)

**Total:** 73.19% in common, 26.81% distinct

Of particular interest are the sites with a very high common percentage and some overlapping questions like the WebMasters StackExchange site.  

**Update:**

What percentage of SO users come from the other sites? I checked the registration dates and a surprising 5% of SO accounts come from the other sites.  This doesn't change the result much above though.  Almost all of these 5% of distinct accounts come from Ask Ubuntu, Super User, and Server Fault.


[1]: http://stackexchange.com/
[2]: http://stackoverflow.com/about
[3]: http://www.brianbondy.com/blog/id/105/twitter-accounts-for-all-stackoverflow-users-by-reputation
