## What are abstract functions?

Abstract functions, are functions whose implementation is not yet specified.

They are useful because:

- They allow you to define an interface without defining an implementation.  
- A base class may not have a specific default definition for a function, but you know that derived types will.

In C++ both interfaces, and abstract classes are done via pure virtual functions.  Pure virtual functions simply say that derived types must override the function.  The base type can have a default  implementation (that the derived types can use by calling the base function directly) but the base functions typically have no implementation at all.

In C# there are different constructs for interfaces (`interface`) and undefined base functions (`abstract`).

This post discusses what pure virtual function call errors are, and how they work across the following languages: C++, C#, and Python.

## What is a pure virtual function call error?

Pure virtual function call errors could potentially happen, in a programming language that allows you to create partially implemented classes.  Although not all programming languages can have pure virtual function call errors.

Pure virtual function call errors occur when a call is made to a pure virtual function.   Since an abstract base type cannot be created in most languages, they will typically occur before a derived type is fully created, or after a derived type is already destroyed.   The call is therefore usually called from the base type.  Pure virtual function call errors could potentially also occur when using a pointer to call a function of an already deleted object.

---

## Can C++ have pure virtual function errors?

Yes.

Consider the order of construction for the following C++ code:

    class Animal
    {
    public:
      virtual ~Animal() {}
      virtual void Speak() = 0;
      Animal() {}
    };

    class Dog : public Animal
    {
    public:
      virtual void Speak() { }
    };

    //....
    Dog leia;

When you create an instance of `Dog` the following happens:

1. Construct `Animal`
- Construct `Dog`

When the instance of `Dog` named `leia` falls out of scope, the following happens on destruction:

1. Destruct `Dog`
- Destruct `Animal`

If you happen to call `Speak()` in the destructor of Animal, or in the constructor of Animal, then a pure virtual function error will occur.  Most C++ compilers will give you a compiling error; however, you can get around this compiling error by calling a function that calls a pure virtual function.  

Here is a code sample that will produce a pure virtual function runtime error in g++, Visual Studio 2005, and Visual Studio 2008.

    class Animal
    {
    public:
    	virtual ~Animal() {}
    	virtual void Speak() = 0;
     	void SpeakPlease()
    	{
    		Speak();
    	}
    	Animal()
    	{
    		SpeakPlease();
    	}
    };

    class Dog : public Animal
    {
    public:
    	virtual void Speak() { }
    };


    int main(int argc, char* argv[])
    {
    	Dog leia;
    	return 0;
    }



---

## Can C# have pure virtual function errors?

No.

C# allows you to create pure virtual functions by using the abstract keyword on each of your abstract function/methods.
And if you have even one abstract function/method in your class you must also use abstract before your class declaration.

C# gets around pure virtual function calls though, but arguably in a worse way.

    public abstract class Animal
    {
        public Animal()
        {
            Speak();
        }

        ~Animal()
        {
            Speak();
        }

        public abstract void Speak();
    }

    public class Dog : Animal
    {
        public override void Speak()
        {
            Console.WriteLine("Woof!");
        }

        ~Dog()
        {
        }
    }

`Dog::Speak()` will be called in the destructor of `Animal` even know Dog is already destructed.  Obviously this can lead to many problems.

---

## Can Python have pure virtual function errors?

Kind of, and only if you follow certain conventions.

Python can't define abstract functions directly, instead you simply raise an exception of type NotImplemented.  

In Python all functions/methods are virtual.

This is to say pure virtual function support is defined in Python simply by convention instead of language constructs.

Therefore unlike C++ and C#, you can create objects of a class that have some of it's functions/methods as abstract.
In that sence you can have pure virtual function errors (via NotImplementedError exceptions)

But Python works like C# in the sense that even before the derived type is constructed, it will call into it.
The end result is that it throws an exception that can be caught.


    class Animal(object):
      def __init__(self):
        print("Constructing animal")
        self.Speak()
      def Speak(self):
        raise NotImplementedError
      def __del__(self):
        print("Destructing animal")

    class Dog(Animal):
      def __init__(self):
        super(Dog, self).__init__()
        print("Constructing Dog")
      def Speak(self):
        print("Woof!")
      def __del__(self):
        print("Destructing dog")
        super(Dog, self).__del__()

    def Test():
      leia = Dog()

---

Next time you get an error like: `"R6025 Pure virtual function call"`, perhaps you will wonder less about the source of the error.
